feat(exporter): add Google Cloud Pub/Sub (#4195)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/components/otelcol/otelcol.exporter.googlecloudpubsub.md

labels:
  products:
    - oss
  tags:
    - text: Community
      tooltip: This component is developed, maintained, and supported by the Alloy user community.
title: otelcol.exporter.googlecloudpubsub
---

# `otelcol.exporter.googlecloudpubsub`

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/community.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

`otelcol.exporter.googlecloudpubsub` accepts metrics, traces, and logs from other `otelcol` components and sends it to Google Cloud Pub/Sub Topic.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
`otelcol.exporter.googlecloudpubsub` is a wrapper over the upstream OpenTelemetry Collector [`googlecloudpubsub`][] exporter.
Bug reports or feature requests will be redirected to the upstream repository, if necessary.

[`googlecloudpubsub`]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/{{< param "OTEL_VERSION" >}}/exporter/googlecloudpubsubexporter
{{< /admonition >}}

You can specify multiple `otelcol.exporter.googlecloudpubsub` components by giving them different labels.

## Usage

```alloy
otelcol.exporter.googlecloudpubsub "<LABEL>" {
    project = "project-id"
    topic   = "projects/project-id/topics/topic-name"
}
```

### Authenticating

> Refer to the original [Google Cloud Pub/Sub Exporter][] document.

Reviewer: We could refer to both resources maybe? I added a suggestion that does this... thoughts?

> Refer to the original [Google Cloud Pub/Sub Exporter][] document.

Author: Sound good to me

  products:
    - oss
  tags:
    - text: Community
      tooltip: This component is developed, maintained, and supported by the Alloy user community.
title: otelcol.exporter.googlecloudpubsub
---

# `otelcol.exporter.googlecloudpubsub`

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/community.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

`otelcol.exporter.googlecloudpubsub` accepts metrics, traces, and logs from other `otelcol` components and sends it to Google Cloud Pub/Sub Topic.

{{< admonition type="note" >}}
`otelcol.exporter.googlecloudpubsub` is a wrapper over the upstream OpenTelemetry Collector [`googlecloudpubsub`][] exporter.
Bug reports or feature requests will be redirected to the upstream repository, if necessary.

[`googlecloudpubsub`]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/{{< param "OTEL_VERSION" >}}/exporter/googlecloudpubsubexporter
{{< /admonition >}}

You can specify multiple `otelcol.exporter.googlecloudpubsub` components by giving them different labels.

## Usage

```alloy
otelcol.exporter.googlecloudpubsub "<LABEL>" {
    project = "<PROJECT-ID>"
    topic   = "projects/<PROJECT-ID>/topics/<TOPIC-NAME>"
}
```

### Authenticating

> Refer to the original [Google Cloud Pub/Sub Exporter][] document.
> 
> [Google Cloud Pub/Sub Exporter]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/exporter/googlecloudpubsubexporter/README.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Google Cloud Pub/Sub Exporter][] and [Google Cloud Exporter][] documentation for more detailed information about authentication.

[Google Cloud Pub/Sub Exporter]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/exporter/googlecloudpubsubexporter/README.md
[Google Cloud Exporter]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/googlecloudexporter#prerequisite-authenticating

```
